---
title: "336-hw2"
date: 2026-07-11 22:28:43
tags: ["技术学习", "336"]
author: "julyfun.m5air"
os: "Darwin julyfundeMacBook-Air.local 25.3.0 Darwin Kernel Version 25.3.0: Wed Jan 28 20:56:42 PST 2026; root:xnu-12377.91.3~2/RELEASE_ARM64_T8142 arm64"
assume-you-know: [computer]
confidence: 2
---

See also README in hw2 repo for commands.

## 2.1.3 End-to-End Benchmarking

Q: 写 benchmark 脚本：按超参建 Transformer，生成随机 batch，支持 forward only、forward+backward、forward+backward+optimizer step。每步后 `torch.cuda.synchronize()`。

对表中模型大小，用 `5` warmup steps，测 `10` measurement steps，报告均值/标准差。再测无 warmup、1 warmup、2 warmup。

A: | small | 768 | 3072 | 12 | 12 |

→(mean, std) ↓(forward, for+back, for+back+opt)
```bash
(np.float64(0.0545499186962843), np.float64(9.301123529883161e-05))
(np.float64(0.230664774030447), np.float64(0.020122250377148584))
(np.float64(0.24185883365571498), np.float64(0.030474347009177154))
```

| medium | 1024 | 4096 | 24 | 16 |:
```python
(np.float64(0.16028596945106982), np.float64(0.00011035529741210624))
(np.float64(0.6570748724043369), np.float64(0.03049904281007697))
(np.float64(0.6851631578058004), np.float64(0.03967747669197852))
```

| large | 1280 | 5120 | 36 | 20 |:
```rust
(np.float64(0.3304705709218979), np.float64(0.0023439186241350617))
(np.float64(1.3425680793821813), np.float64(0.04551350800571191))
(np.float64(1.3851026877760888), np.float64(0.036186751000143125))
```

| xl | 2560 | 10240 | 32 | 32 |: 换成了 H200. 初始化很慢，大概要 30s，print 了一下发现没有瓶颈就是慢.
```c
(np.float64(0.37269446402788164), np.float64(0.020297942534701095))
(np.float64(1.3736595837865024), np.float64(0.020598247928436356))
(np.float64(1.4584950204007328), np.float64(0.043012806955922626))
```

| 10B | 4608 | 12288 | 50 | 36 |: 爆显存.

### warmup: medium 模型. H200

```
--warmup 0 --outer 10 --inner 1
(np.float64(0.330410421686247), np.float64(0.08759358961566299))
# 即使销毁模型，只要进程没销毁，warmup 就持续有效.

--warmup 0 --outer 1 --inner 1
(np.float64(0.5848983488976955), np.float64(0.0))
(np.float64(0.7329192743636668), np.float64(0.0))

--warmup 1 --outer 1 --inner 1
(np.float64(0.298882813192904), np.float64(0.0))
(np.float64(0.2970326286740601), np.float64(0.0))

--warmup 2 --outer 1 --inner 1
(np.float64(0.2952738180756569), np.float64(0.0))
(np.float64(0.35315717151388526), np.float64(0.0))

--warmup 5 --outer 1 --inner 1
(np.float64(0.296027516014874), np.float64(0.0))
(np.float64(0.2957768542692065), np.float64(0.0))
```

一次 & 多次 warmup 似乎没区别.

## 2.1.4 nsys

Profile your forward pass, backward pass, and optimizer step using nsys with two model sizes
from Table 1 of your choice as well as three power-of-two context lengths larger than 128, where
the largest available size should be the longest context length you can fit in memory. Pick the
combinations you think would be the most interesting to look at. For each profile answer the
following questions:

1. 只用了 medium, context = 512.

(a) What is the total time spent on your forward pass? Does it match what we had measured
before with the Python standard library?
Deliverable: A 1-2 sentence response.

1. forward: 约 250ms. 很 match (python 是 254ms).

(b) What CUDA kernel takes the most cumulative GPU time during the forward pass? How
many times is this kernel invoked during a single forward pass of your model? Is it the same
kernel that takes the most runtime when you do both forward and backward passes? (Hint:
look at the “CUDA GPU Kernel Summary” under “Stats System View”, and filter using
NVTX ranges to identify which parts of the model are responsible for which kernels.)
Deliverable: A 1-2 sentence response.

1. forward 中，最耗时 ampere_sgemm_128x128_tn (49ms). 143 times.
2. forward + backward 的话最耗时就是 backward 的 indexing_backward_kernel_stride_1 (149ms, 24 times)

(c) Although the vast majority of FLOPs take place in matrix multiplications, you will notice
that several other kernels still take a non-trivial amount of the overall runtime. What other
kernels besides matrix multiplies do you see accounting for non-trivial CUDA runtime in the
forward pass?
Deliverable: A 1-2 sentence response.

1. 主要是 ampere_sgemm_128x32_tn (49ms), write_indices (10.4ms), vectorized_elementwise_kernel (7.2ms)

(d) Profile running one complete training step with your implementation of AdamW (i.e., the
forward pass, computing the loss and running a backward pass, and finally an optimizer step,
as you’d do during training). How does the fraction of time spent on matrix multiplication
change, compared to doing inference (forward pass only)? How about other kernels?
Deliverable: A 1-2 sentence response.

1. 完整步相比 forward 矩乘占比明显降低. indexing_backward_kernel_stride_1 (梯度累加回原始张量）显著上升.

(e) Compare the runtime of the softmax operation versus the matrix multiplication operations
within the self-attention layer of your model during a forward pass. How does the difference
in runtimes compare to the difference in FLOPs?
Deliverable: A 1-2 sentence response.

1. attn softmax 耗时 9ms. attn matmul 耗时 10ms. FLOPS 则是 4.29e9 vs 8.39e7（手算）. 由于 softmax 不是矩阵乘法而是多次 log sum exp 运算，Arithmetic Intensity 很低.

## 2.1.5 mixed_precision_accumulation
Q: Run the following code and comment on the accuracy of the results.

1. float32 直接计算全部，是 (10.0001) 用 float16 存储总和的精度非常糟糕 (9.9531). 用 float16 存储中间变量而 float32 存储总和就还行. (10.0021).

## 2.1.5 benchmarking_mixed_precision

```python
from torch import nn
class ToyModel(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, in_features: int, out_features: int):
        super().__init__()
        self.fc1 = nn.Linear(in_features, 10, bias=False)
        self.ln = nn.LayerNorm(10)
        self.fc2 = nn.Linear(10, out_features, bias=False)
        self.relu = nn.ReLU()
    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.relu(self.fc1(x))
        x = self.ln(x)
        x = self.fc2(x)
        return x
```

(a) Using autocast, what are the data types of:
- the model parameters within the autocast context? fp32
- the output of the first feed-forward layer (ToyModel.fc1)? input=[torch.float32], output=[torch.bfloat16]
- the output of layer norm (ToyModel.ln)? output=[torch.float32] 因为涉及均值和方差计算
- the model’s predicted logits? bf16
- the loss? fp32
- the model’s gradients? fp32

(b) What parts of layer normalization are sensitive to mixed precision? 均值和方差.

If we use BF16 instead of FP16, do we still need to treat layer normalization differently? Why or why not? 还是 FP32，因为方差对尾数也敏感 (例如方差可能很小)
